Serverless APM Documentation Update (#9384)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/serverless/distributed_tracing/serverless_trace_merging.md

---
title: Serverless Trace Merging
kind: documentation
description: 'Augment AWS X-Ray Tracing with Datadog APM'
further_reading:
    - link: 'serverless'
      text: 'Serverless Monitoring with Datadog'
---

{{< img src="tracing/serverless_functions/ServerlessDistributedTrace.png" alt="Trace Serverless Functions"  style="width:100%;" >}}

> ## Use Cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use cases
```

---
title: Serverless Trace Merging
kind: documentation
description: 'Augment AWS X-Ray Tracing with Datadog APM'
further_reading:
    - link: 'serverless'
      text: 'Serverless Monitoring with Datadog'
---

{{< img src="tracing/serverless_functions/ServerlessDistributedTrace.png" alt="Trace Serverless Functions"  style="width:100%;" >}}

## Use Cases

Serverless trace merging is required to see a single, connected trace when you configure both Datadog's tracing libraries (`dd-trace`) and AWS X-Ray tracing libraries in your application. If you aren't sure which tracing library to use, [read this page on choosing your tracing library][1].

> There are two primary reasons for instrumenting both `dd-trace` and AWS X-Ray tracing libraries:

Author: Is this accurate? @tianchu

> There are two primary reasons for instrumenting both `dd-trace` and AWS X-Ray tracing libraries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two primary reasons for instrumenting with both `dd-trace` and AWS X-Ray tracing libraries:
```

Author: applied this feedback

> - In a serverless-first environment, your application requires AWS X-Ray active tracing in AWS managed services such as API Gateway or Step Functions, you are tracing your Lambda functions with `dd-trace`, and you want to visualize connected traces across your serverless resources.

Reviewer 2: I personally prefer `In a Lambda environment` over `In a serverless-first environment` for clarity.

> - In a serverless-first environment, your application requires AWS X-Ray active tracing in AWS managed services such as API Gateway or Step Functions, you are tracing your Lambda functions with `dd-trace`, and you want to visualize connected traces across your serverless resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In a Lambda environment, you are already tracing your Lambda functions with `dd-trace`, you also want the AWS X-Ray active tracing for AWS managed services such as API Gateway or Step Functions, and you want to visualize the `dd-trace` and X-Ray spans in one single trace.
```

Not sure about the exact language, but the idea is to make the description a little bit more explicit and specific.

Author: applied this feedback

> - In a hybrid environment with both Lambda functions and hosts, `dd-trace` is installed on your hosts with the Datadog Agent, your serverless functions are traced with AWS X-Ray, and you want to visualize connected traces for transactions across Lambda functions and hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In a hybrid environment with both Lambda functions and hosts, `dd-trace` instruments your hosts, AWS X-Ray instruments your Lambda functions, and you want to visualize connected traces for transactions across Lambda functions and hosts.
```

Author: applied this feedback

- [Trace merging in a serverless-first environment](#trace-merging-in-a-serverless-first-environment)
- [Trace merging across AWS Lambda and hosts](#trace-merging-across-aws-lambda-and-hosts)

### Trace merging in a serverless-first environment

AWS X-Ray provides both a backend AWS service (AWS X-Ray active tracing) and a set of client libraries. [Enabling the backend AWS service alone in the Lambda console][2] gives you `Initialization` and `Invocation` spans for your AWS Lambda functions. You can also enable AWS X-Ray active tracing from the API Gateway and Step Function consoles.

Both the AWS X-Ray SDK and Datadog APM client libraries (`dd-trace`) add medatada and spans for downstream calls by accessing the function directly. Assuming you are using `dd-trace` to trace at the handler level, your setup should be similar to the following:

1. You have enabled [AWS X-Ray active tracing][2] on your Lambda functions from the AWS Lambda console and our [AWS X-Ray integration within Datadog][3].
2. You have instrumented your Lambda functions with Datadog APM (`dd-trace`) by following the [installation instructions for your Lambda runtime][4].

> 3. The AWS X-Ray client libraries should not be installed on your Lambda functions. Otherwise, you will see duplicate traces.

Reviewer 2: Actually X-Ray SDK does need to be installed (our library actually ensures it's installed and depends on it), but it should not be used to patch third-party libraries https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-sdk-python-patching.html, to avoid duplicate spans.

> To merge the traces, set the corresponding environment variable as outlined below:

Author: You've tested this more so would like you to double check the accuracy here. Is there a simpler way to do this in Node? cc @tianchu 

Do you know how this might be configured in Java/Go?

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}
```javascript

> module.exports.hello = datadog(

Reviewer 2: I think it's better/simpler to use the env var https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-js#dd_merge_xray_traces

    (event, context, callback) => {
        longCalculation();

        callback(null, {
            statusCode: 200,
            body: 'Hello from serverless!'
        });
    },
    { mergeDatadogXrayTraces: true }
);
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Python" %}}

> Set the `DD_MERGE_XRAY_TRACES` environment variable to `True` on your Lambda function.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this section deserves to be broken down by language. Perhaps we could say "Set the `DD_MERGE_XRAY_TRACES` (`DD_MERGE_DATADOG_XRAY_TRACES` for Ruby) environment variable to `true` on your Lambda function"?

Probably we could also mention the option from serverless plugin and macro if the customer is using those?

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Ruby" %}}

Set the `DD_MERGE_DATADOG_XRAY_TRACES` environment variable to `True` on your Lambda function.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Tracing across AWS Lambda and hosts

If you have installed Datadog's tracing libraries (`dd-trace`) on both your Lambda functions and hosts, your traces will automatically show you the complete picture of requests that cross infrastructure boundaries, whether it be AWS Lambda, containers, on-prem hosts, or managed services. 

If `dd-trace` is installed on your hosts with the Datadog Agent, and your serverless functions are traced with AWS X-Ray, your setup should be similar to the following:

1. You have installed the [AWS X-Ray integration][2] for tracing your Lambda functions, enabling both AWS X-Ray active tracing and installing the X-Ray client libraries.
2. You have installed the [Datadog Lambda Library for your Lambda runtime][4], and the `DD_TRACE_ENABLED` environment variable is set to `false`.
3. [Datadog APM][5] is configured on your hosts and container-based infrastructure.

> Then, for X-Ray and Datadog APM traces to appear in the same flame graph, all services must have the same `env` tag.

Author: Is this accurate, or do you need to set the above environment variable for this too? @tianchu

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is a hard requirement, though I never tried it specifically.
